README.md, before:

# Aye Aye

An ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) framework.

## Quick install

In the virtual environment for the project you’d like to use Aye Aye in, run:-

```shell
pip install ayeaye
```

## Quick start

Use [Pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) to manage a python virtual environment and package management0

```shell
pipenv shell
pipenv install ayeaye
```

Within the environment created by pipenv above, run one of the examples:-

```shell
curl "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/AyeAye/master/examples/poisonous_animals.py" \
  --output poisonous_animals.py
mkdir data
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/AyeAye/master/examples/data/poisonous_animals.json \
  --output data/poisonous_animals.json
python poisonous_animals.py 
```

This model takes a small input dataset of animals and collates them by the country they are found. It doesn't write to a dataset, it just outputs a log. The log for this example contains the name of the country and the animals found there.

There are more examples in the [Aye-Aye-Recipes](https://github.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/Aye-Aye-Recipes) git repo.


## Overview

An Aye Aye ETL *model* inherits from `ayeaye.model` and uses class level variables to declare *connectors* to the data it acts on.

Example:-

```python
import ayeaye

class PoisonousAnimals(ayeaye.Model):
    poisonous_animals = ayeaye.Connect(engine_url='json://data/poisonous_animals.json')
```

When instantiated, `self.poisonous_animals` will be a *dataset* that ETL operations can be done with.

The `engine_url` parameter passed to `ayeaye.Connect` is specifying the dataset type JSON in this case) and exact location for the data (`data/poisonous_animals.json` is a relative file path).

Instead of `engine_url` you could also specify a `ref` and this uses the data catalogue to lookup the `engine_url`. (TODO this feature is coming soon!). When used this way, `ayeaye.Connect` is responsible for resolving the `ref` to an `engine_url` and passing this to a subclass of `ayeaye.connectors.base.DataConnector` which can read and maybe write this data type.


## Unit tests

Ensure the working directory is the base Aye Aye directory (i.e. the same directory as the Pipfile):
```shell
pipenv install --dev
export PYTHONPATH=`pwd`/lib
pipenv run python -m unittest discover
```

## Development version

To use the latest code in editable mode-

```shell
pipenv install -e git+https://github.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/AyeAye#egg=ayeaye
```

When `venv` is being used, add this line to `requirements.txt`-

```
git+https://github.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/AyeAye#egg=ayeaye
```



## License

Aye Aye is distributed under the terms of the [Apache License 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html) and Copyright Progressive Logic Limit 2021 and onwards.

Commit message:

added: use of wildcards in engine_url param of :class:`ayeaye.Connect` to be pattern matched after the context variables are resolved. This means `engine_url="csv://{my_data}/*.csv"` will result in a MultiConnector after 'my_data' has been resolved into a runtime specified path. added: Connectors which use the filesystem will all have the wildcard behaviour added: :class:`ayeaye.Model` has `self.stats` as a default dictionary. It's aimed at runtime statistics ga thering. When used it automatically logs the results after the model has finished running updated: bit of black formatting updated: release version

README.md, after:

# Aye Aye

An ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) framework.

## Quick install

In the virtual environment for the project you’d like to use Aye Aye in, run:-

```shell
pip install ayeaye
```

## Quick start

Use [Pipenv](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/) to manage a python virtual environment and package management0

```shell
pipenv shell
pipenv install ayeaye
```

Within the environment created by pipenv above, run one of the examples:-

```shell
curl "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/AyeAye/master/examples/poisonous_animals.py" \
  --output poisonous_animals.py
mkdir data
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/AyeAye/master/examples/data/poisonous_animals.json \
  --output data/poisonous_animals.json
python poisonous_animals.py 
```

This model takes a small input dataset of animals and collates them by the country they are found. It doesn't write to a dataset, it just outputs a log. The log for this example contains the name of the country and the animals found there.

There are more examples in the [Aye-Aye-Recipes](https://github.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/Aye-Aye-Recipes) git repo.


## Overview

An Aye Aye ETL *model* inherits from `ayeaye.model` and uses class level variables to declare *connectors* to the data it acts on.

Example:-

```python
import ayeaye

class PoisonousAnimals(ayeaye.Model):
    poisonous_animals = ayeaye.Connect(engine_url='json://data/poisonous_animals.json')
```

When instantiated, `self.poisonous_animals` will be a *dataset* that ETL operations can be done with.

The `engine_url` parameter passed to `ayeaye.Connect` is specifying the dataset type JSON in this case) and exact location for the data (`data/poisonous_animals.json` is a relative file path).

Instead of `engine_url` you could also specify a `ref` and this uses the data catalogue to lookup the `engine_url`. (TODO this feature is coming soon!). When used this way, `ayeaye.Connect` is responsible for resolving the `ref` to an `engine_url` and passing this to a subclass of `ayeaye.connectors.base.DataConnector` which can read and maybe write this data type.


## Unit tests

Ensure the working directory is the base Aye Aye directory (i.e. the same directory as the Pipfile):
```shell
pipenv install --dev
export PYTHONPATH=`pwd`/lib
pipenv run python -m unittest discover
```

## Development version

To use the latest code in editable mode-

```shell
pipenv install -e git+https://github.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/AyeAye#egg=ayeaye
```

When `venv` is being used, add this line to `requirements.txt`-

```
git+https://github.com/Aye-Aye-Dev/AyeAye#egg=ayeaye
```

## Optional extras

Extra dependencies for API usage within Aye-aye models can be installed like this:

```shell
pipenv install "ayeaye[api]"
```


## License

Aye Aye is distributed under the terms of the [Apache License 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html) and Copyright Progressive Logic Limit 2021 and onwards.
