doc/source/index.rst, before:

:html_theme.sidebar_secondary.remove:

.. _about:

Welcome to Aye-aye
==================

**Aye-aye** An ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) framework.


Finding the right documentation
-------------------------------

.. grid:: 1 1 3 3

    .. grid-item-card::

        If you're new to Aye-aye
        ^^^
        Follow these guides to get started:

        * :ref:`First steps <first_steps>`: a simple tutorial to create an run a single ETL model.

        * :ref:`Concepts <concepts>`: the ideas behind Aye-aye.


    .. grid-item-card::

        If you have some basic knowledge of Aye-aye
        ^^^
        Tutorials to further develop an ETL model:

        * :ref:`todo`: tutorial two: How to connect models via their datasets.


    .. grid-item-card::

        Building larger models
        ^^^
        Running larger models in production environments:

        * :ref:`todo`: tutorial three: partitioned execution.

        * :ref:`todo`: tutorial four: distributed execution.


.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   first_steps
   concepts
   reference
   todo

Commit message:

added: doc. intro and diagram for concepts

doc/source/index.rst, after:

:html_theme.sidebar_secondary.remove:

.. _about:

Welcome to Aye-aye
==================

**Aye-aye** is an ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) framework written in Python for reshaping data from one form into another.


Finding the right documentation
-------------------------------

.. grid:: 1 1 3 3

    .. grid-item-card::

        If you're new to Aye-aye
        ^^^
        Follow these guides to get started:

        * :ref:`Introduction <intro>` to ETL and Aye-aye's design goals.

        * :ref:`First steps <first_steps>`: a simple tutorial to create an run a single ETL model.

        * :ref:`Concepts <concepts>`: the ideas behind Aye-aye.


    .. grid-item-card::

        If you have some basic knowledge of Aye-aye
        ^^^
        Tutorials to further develop an ETL model:

        * :ref:`todo`: tutorial two: How to connect models via their datasets.


    .. grid-item-card::

        Building larger models
        ^^^
        Running larger models in production environments:

        * :ref:`todo`: tutorial three: partitioned execution.

        * :ref:`todo`: tutorial four: distributed execution.


.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   intro
   first_steps
   concepts
   reference
   todo
